>> Woodruff: PRESIDENTS OBAMA
AND CLINTON MARK THE 20TH
ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICORPS.
WE SIT DOWN WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON ON THE
LEGACY OF THE CORPS.
AND HOW TO TAKE ON ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS.
>> EVENTUALLY DESTROYED IF AND
ONLY IF THE PEOPLE THEY ARE
ABUSING ARE WILLING TO FIGHT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE GROWING SAFETY
CONCERNS OVER EXPLODING AIR BAGS
THAT HAVE CAUSED MANUFACTURERS
TO RECALL MORE THAN FOURTEEN
MILLION CARS.
THEN, INVESTIGATING THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN THE $4.7
BILLION DEAL TO BUY THE AMERICAN
PORK COMPANY, SMITHFIELD FARMS.
>> THE CHINESE, THEY PAID A 30%
PREMIUM.
VERY INTERESTING.
NOT EXACTLY THE BEST BUSINESS
DEAL.
SO, WHAT'S REALLY GOING ON HERE?
WHAT REALLY IS IT THAT THIS
MERGER, THIS PURCHASE, WAS ALL
ABOUT?
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY,
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE, TO ANALYZE ANOTHER
WEEK FULL OF NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION FACED GROWING
QUESTIONS TODAY ABOUT THE
COALITION IT'S TRYING TO BUILD
AGAINST "ISLAMIC STATE"
MILITANTS.
SECRETARY OF STATE MET WITH
TURKISH LEADERS IN ANKARA,
HOPING TO WIN THEIR SUPPORT.
LATER, HE SAID THE ROLES OF
TURKEY AND OTHER POTENTIAL
ALLIES HAVE YET TO BE
DETERMINED.
>> IT IS FRANKLY INAPPROPRIATE
AT THIS POINT IN TIME TO START
LAYING OUT ONE COUNTRY BY ONE
COUNTRY WHAT INDIVIDUAL NATIONS
ARE GOING TO DO.
MORE THAN 40 COUNTRIES HAD
ALREADY OFFERED ASSISTANCE OF
ONE KIND OR ANOTHER BEFORE I
LEFT WASHINGTON.
MEANWHILE, FRENCH PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLE
MEETING WITH THE NEW PRIME
MINISTER, HAIDER AL-ABADI.
AFTERWARD, ABADI SAID FRANCE
AGREED TO JOIN IN AIR STRIKES
AGAINST "ISLAMIC STATE"
FIGHTERS.
SECRETARY KERRY ALSO ANNOUNCED
NEARLY $500 MILLION IN
HUMANITARIAN AID TODAY FOR
SYRIAN REFUGEES, AND THE
COUNTRIES WHERE THEY'VE FLED.
SOME THREE MILLION SYRIANS HAVE
TAKEN REFUGE IN NEIGHBORING
STATES.
MORE THAN TWICE THAT MANY REMAIN
INSIDE SYRIA.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
HAS ISSUED AN URGENT NEW APPEAL
FOR HEALTH WORKERS, TO FIGHT
EBOLA IN WEST AFRICA.
THE AGENCY ANNOUNCED TODAY THE
DEATH TOLL IN THE OUTBREAK HAS
TOPPED 2,400 OUT OF NEARLY
48 HUNDRED CASES.
CUBA, MEANWHILE, ANNOUNCED PLANS
TO SEND 165 HEALTH SPECIALISTS
TO SIERRA LEONE TO HELP IN THE
EFFORT.
THE UNITED STATES AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION BOTH FORMALLY
IMPOSED NEW ECONOMIC SANCTIONS
ON RUSSIA TODAY, FOR FOMENTING
UNREST IN UKRAINE.
THE U.S. MEASURES TARGET
RUSSIA'S LARGEST BANK, PLUS
ENERGY AND DEFENSE COMPANIES.
RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SERGEI
LAVROV TOLD RUSSIAN STATE T.V.
THAT THE MOVES COULD JEOPAE
THE CEASE-FIRE IN UKRAINE.
THIS WAS ALREADY COMMENTARY
AND OUR POSITION IS THAT MAKING
THIS TYPE OF DECISION AT THE
VERY MOMENT WHEN THE PEACE
PROCESS IS GAINING STABILITY, IT
MEANS CHOOSING THE PATH OF
DISRUPTING THE PEACE PROCESS.
WE'RE GOING TO RESPOND CALMLY,
ADEQUATELY AND, MOST OF ALL,
FROM A NEED TO PROTECT OUR
INTERESTS.
>> Woodruff: THE KREMLIN SAID
LATER IT WILL ISSUE ITS OWN
RETALIATORY MEASURES.
IN SOUTH AFRICA, DOUBLE-AMPUTEE
OLYMPIC RUNNER OSCAR PISTORIUS
WAS CONVICTED OF "CULPABLE
HOMICIDE," AKIN TO MANSLAUGHTER,
IN THE SHOOTING DEATH OF HIS
GIRLFRIEND.
THE JUDGE ACQUITTED HIM OF
MURDER CHARGES.
AFTERWARD, POLICE AND BODYGUARDS
DED PISTORIUS THROUGH A MOB OF
SUPPORTERS.
HE COULD GET AS MANY AS 15 YEARS
IN PRISON.
THE EMBATTLED MAYOR OF TORONTO,
CANADA, ROB FORD, HAS DROPPED
HIS RUN FOR RE-ELECTION, AFTER
DISCOVERING HE HAS AN ABDOMINAL
TUMOR.
FORD HAD PREVIOUSLY INSISTED
HE'D STAY IN THE RACE, DESPITE
DRUG AND ALCOHOL SCANDALS.
IN A STATEMENT TODAY, HE SAID
HE'LL RUN FOR A SEAT ON THE CITY
COUNCIL, INSTEAD.
HIS BROTHER, WHO NOW HOLDS A
COUNCIL SEAT, WILL RUN FOR MAYOR
IN HIS PLACE.
THE FIERY, LONG-TIME LEADER OF
NORTHERN IRELAND'S PROTESTANTS,
THE REVEREND IAN PAISLEY, DIED
TODAY.
FOR DECADES, HE REJECTED
COMPROMISE WITH CATHOLICS, AND
DEMANDED THE DEFEAT OF THE IRISH
REPUBLICAN ARMY.
AFTER THE I.R.A. DISARMED,
PAISLEY STUNNED THE WORLD IN
2007 BY FORMING A UNITY
GOVERNMENT.
THE REVEREND IAN PAISLEY WAS
88 YEARS OLD.
DEPORTATIONS OF UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS FROM THE U.S. HAVE
FALLEN 20% THIS FISCAL YEAR, TO
THE LOWEST LEVEL SINCE 2007.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
TODAY.
IT'S PARTLY BECAUSE BORDER
PATROL AGENTS HAVE BEEN SWAMPED
BAL AMERICAN
CHILDREN CROSSING INTO THE
COUNTRY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS POSTPONED
ANY OFFICIAL IMMIGRATION POLICY
CHANGES UNTIL AFTER THE MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 61
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,987.
THE NASDAQ FELL 24 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4567.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED
NEARLYPO
1985.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW AND THE
S-AND-P LOST ABOUT ONE PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ FELL A FRACTION OF A
PERCENT.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
FORMER PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON ON
THE LEGACY OF AMERICORPS, THE
THREAT OF ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS, AND MORE;
HOW AN AIRBAG DEFECT HAS
TRIGGERED THE RECALL OF FOURTEEN
MILLION CARS SINCE 2009;
W BEFORE
CHECKING INTO OUTPATIENT SURGERY
MEDICAL CENTERS;
THE ROLE OF THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT IN BUYING AMERICA'S
LARGEST PORK COMPANY;
AND MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Woodruff: THEY CELEBRATED AT
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY, 20 YEARS
AFTER A LANDMARK LAW THAT
ENSHRINED A DOMESTIC VERSION OF
THE "PEACE CORPS."
AND THE MAN WHO SIGNED THAT LAW,
WAS ON HAND.
>> Woodruff: WITH THE STROKE OF
HIS PEN, FORMER PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON MADE THE AMERICORPS
NATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM A
REALITY, IN 1993.
A YEAR LATER, THE FIRST CLASS
WAS OFFICIALLY SWORN IN.
>> WILL YOU ALL RAISE YOUR RIGHT
HAND AND REPEAT AFTER ME: I WILL
GET THINGS DONE FOR AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: IN THE 20 YEARS
SINCE, MORE THAN 900,000
PARTICIPANTS HAVE SPENT IN
EXCESS OF 1.2 BILLION HOURS
WORKING ON PROJECTS ACROSS THE
U.S.
TODAY, THAT SPIRIT OF SERVICE
WAS CELEBRATED AT THE WHITE
HOUSE, AS CLINTON AND HUNDREDS
OF CURRENT AND PAST AMERICORPS
MEMBERS JOINED PRESIDENT OBAMA
TO MARK THE ANNIVERSARY.
>> AMERICORPS HAS CHANGED THE
LIFE OF OUR NATION.
AND NOW IT'S UP TO US TO MAKE
SURE IT CONTINUES CAUSE WE'RE
NOT JUST HERE TO CELEBRATE
WHAT'S ALREADY BEEN ACHIEVED.
WE'RE HERE TO REDEDICATE
OURSELVES TO THE WORK THAT LIES
AHEAD.
>> Woodruff: A NEW CLASS OF SOME
75,000 VOLUNTEERS WAS SWORN IN
TODAY AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
MEMBERS MUST BE AT LEAST 17
YEARS OLD AND COMMIT TO
VOLUNTEER FOR A YEAR OR TWO IN
EXCHANGE FOR A MODEST LIVING
ALLOWANCE AS WELL AS AN
EDUCATION STIPEND.
OVER THE YEARS, THEY'VE TUTORED
AND MENTORED CHILDREN IN UNDER-
SERVED COMMUNITIES AND HELPED
REBUILD AFTER NATURAL DISASTERS.
VOLUNTEERS HAVE ALSO WORKED TO
COMBAT HUNGER AND ON
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
PROJECTS.
MATTHEW LITTLE JOINED AMERICORPS
SHORTLY AFTER ITS INCEPTION.
HE WORKED  WITH THE SERVICE
ORGANIZATION "CITY YEAR" AT AN
INNER-CITY SCHOOL IN BOSTON.
>> THIS IS A ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME
OPPORTUNITY THAT PEOPLE DON'T
TYPICALLY GET TO HAVE.
YOU GET TO SERVE YOUR COMMUNITY.
YOU GET TO SERVE THE NATION.
AND YOU GET TO SERVE THESE
INDIVIDUALS.
IT'S JUST SOMETHING THAT MAKES
YOU A BETTER PERSON FOR HAVING
DONE IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE PROGRAM IS
NOT WITHOUT ITS CRITICS.
SOME REPUBLICANS HAVE OBJECTED
TO GIVING A MONETARY INCENTIVE
FOR CIVIC SERVICE.
AT TODAY'S CEREMONY, FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON CALLED IT A
"WONDERFUL INVESTMENT IN
AMERICA'S FUTURE."
>> AMERICORPS WORKS BECAUSE ALL
OF YOU WHO WENT BEFORE KEPT YOUR
PROMISE TO GET THINGS DONE.
I HOPE THAT CONGRESS WILL ON
THIS OCCASION RECONSIDER ITS
OPPOSITION TO ITS BUDGET
REQUESTS AND GIVE US A CHANCE TO
GROW AMERICORPS SOME MORE.
>> Woodruff: I SAT DOWN WITH THE
FORMERSI
TO TALK ABOUT AMERICORPS AND
OTHER MATTERS.
FORMER PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON,
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS WE JUST SAW,
YOU'RE CELEBRATING THE 20t
20th ANNIVERSARY TODAY OF
AHMEAMERICORPS.
YOU SAID THIS WAS ONE OF THE
PROUDEST THINGS YOU DID AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
BUT FROM THE VERY BEGINNING,
MANY REPUBLICANS SAID THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT SHOULD BE DONE IN
THE NONPROFIT SECTOR, THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULDN'T BE FUNDING
IT, IT'S BEEN DIFFICULT TO GET
IT FULLY FUNDED.
WHY DO YOU THINK IT'S BEEN SO
HARD TO GET BIPARTISAN BUY-IN?
>> I THINK IT VIOLATES THEIR
IDEOLOGY, BUT IF YOU THINK ABOUT
IT, IT COSTS US LESS TO HIRE AN
AMERICORPS PERSON ON BASICALLY A
LIVING STIPEND AND GIVE THEM
COLLEGE CREDIT LIKE THE G.I.
BILL THAN IT DOES TO PAY A
YEAR'S WORTH OF UNEMPLOYMENT,
AND EVERY DOLLAR WE SPEND ON
AMERICORPS REPRESENTS A DOLLAR
SPENT ON THE COMMUNITY, EVERY
DOLLAR ON AN INDEPENDENT STUDY
PROVIDES ALMOST $4 WORTH OF
BENEFITS AND EVERY DOLLAR SPENT
THAT WAY SAVES GOVERNMENTS,
FEDERAL STATE AND LOCAL, MORE
THAN $2 THEY WOULD HAVE TO SPEND
OTHERWISE BECAUSE OF ALL THE
FREE LABOR.
AND THE AMERICORPS, LIKE WHEN
THE TORNADO HIT JOPLIN, WE SIT
AMERICORPS VOLUNTEERS DOWN THERE
AND THEY WERE ADEPT AT
GENERATING AND ORGANIZING LARGE
NUMBERS OF OTHER VOLUNTEERS,
SOMETHING NOT EVERYONE KNOWS HOW
TO DO.
IT'S JUST BEEN A GREAT THING.
AND, YOU KNOW, WE STILL HAVE TO
FIGHT IT, BUT I GUESS WE'LL JUST
KEEP DOING IT.
PRESIDENT BUSH SUPPORTED IT, AND
I APPRECIATED THAT.
SO WE'VE HAD THREE PRESIDENTS IN
A ROW THAT HAVE REALLY BEEN IN
HERE FOR IT, AND I THINK WITH
900,000 PEOPLE HAVING SERVED IN
AMERICORPS NOW, I THINK IT'S
PART OF THE FABRIC OF OUR
NATIONAL LIFE.
>> Woodruff: EVEN SOME BIG
SUPPORTERS OF THE PROGRAM HAVE
SAID THAT IT'S BEEN HARDER THAN
YOU WOULD HAVE EXPECTED TO GET
YOUNG PEOPLE INTERESTED IN THIS.
LAST YEAR, THERE WERE HALF A
MILLION YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
APPLIED, BUT THAT'S OUT OF
32 MILLION IN THIS 18 TO 24
COHORT.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THAT?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THEY WERE
APPLYING FOR 75,000 SLOTS.
SO THEY KNEW THAT THERE WAS -- I
MEAN, THAT'S LIKE TRYING TO GET
IN AN IVY LEAGUE SCHOOL.
THAT'S FIRST.
SECONDLY, I THINK A LOT OF YOUNG
PEOPLE STILL DON'T KNOW ABOUT
US, BUT I BELIEVE IF WE HAD
250,000 SLOTS, WHICH IS WHAT WE
WANTED TO HAVE BY 2017, I
BELIEVE THERE WOULD BE MILLIONS
OF PEOPLE APPLY FOR IT.
I'M AMAZED.
I THINK WHATEVER WE CAN PROVIDE,
THE DEMAND WILL EXCEED THE
SUPPLY IN AMERICORPS.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT
CLINTON, YOU THE CLINTON GLOBAL
INITIATIVE HAS NOW BECOME A BIG
ANNUAL HAPPENING IN NEW YORK
CITY COMING UP IN A FEW WEEKS
AND YOU RAISE TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS EVERY YEAR FOR A
VARIETY OF CAUSES.
ONE OF YOUR MAJOR FOCUS THIS
YEAR IS WOMEN AND GIRLS.
IN THE WAKE OF THE RAY RICE
INCIDENT AND OTHER DOMESTIC
ABUSES AND AFTER ALL THE
EDUCATION THAT'S BEEN DONE IN
THIS COUNTRY ON DOMESTIC ABUSE,
WHY DO YOU THINK THIS IS SUCH A
PROBLEM IN OUR COUNTRY?
>> OH, I THINK IT'S A PROBLEM
AROUND THE WORLD.
YOU KNOW, THERE WAS A RECENT
SURVEY, AT LEAST SOMETIME IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS, AND I WISH
I COULD REMEMBER WHO DID IT, BUT
THE NUMBER OF WOMEN AND GIRLS
WHO HAVE BEEN PHYSICALLY AND
SEXUALLY ABUSED, THE PERCENTAGE
AROUND THE WORLD IS STAGGERING
AND FAR GREATER THAN IT IS HERE.
I THINK THE REACTION TO THE RICE
INCIDENT SHOWS THAT WE'RE STILL
MOVING ON IT HERE, BUT I DON'T
KNOW THAT YOU WILL EVER
ELIMINATE IT.
THERE IS AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF
VIOLENCE IN EVERY SOCIETY WITHIN
THE HOME, SADLY, WHERE PEOPLE
LIVE IN PROXIMITY AND ARE UNDER
PRESSURE, HAVE LIVES THEY DON'T
SHOW TO THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
BUT I ACTUALLY THINK AMERICA IS
MAKING HEADWAY HERE.
IT'S A BIG ISSUE TO ME.
I'VE LIVED WITH IT AND HILLARY
SPENT A LIFETIME FIGHTING
AGAINST IT, AND IT'S A BIG
ISSUE.
BUT I THINK WHAT WE WOULD LIKE
TO DO PRIMARILY WITH THE C.G.I.
IS TO KEEP TRYING TO EMPOWER
WOMEN AND GIRLS AROUND THE WORLD
AND TO WORK AGAINST MUCH MORE
INSTITUTIONALIZED VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN AND GIRLS THAT
EXISTS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN YOU
TO SOME NEWS OF THE WEEK, THE
BIG STORY, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
ANNOUNCEMENT OF HIS PLAN TO GO
AFTER, IN HIS WORDS, TO DEGRADE
AND DESTROY THE TERRORIST
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU THAT THIS
IS GOING TO BE SUCCESSFUL?
AND HOW LONG DO YOU THINK IT'S
GOING TO TAKE?
>> WELL, THIS GROUP, I THINK
THEY CAN BE DEGRADED AND
EVENTUALLY DESTROYED IF AND ONLY
IF THE PEOPLE THEY ARE ABUSING
ARE WILLING TO FIGHT.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE STRATEGY HE
OUTLINED, WHICH I STRONGLY AGREE
WITH, REQUIRES US TO USE AIR
POWER AND PEOPLE ON THE GROUND
TO GIVE TRAINING AND SUPPORT AND
INTELLIGENCE AND TO BRING IN
EQUIPMENT THEY NEED SO IT WILL
BE A FAIR FIGHT.
BUT EVER SINCE VIETNAM, WE HAVE
LEARNED THAT IF THE UNITED
STATES GOES ANYWHERE IN THE
WORLD TO FIGHT -- I HATE SPORTS
ANALOGIES -- BUT POTENTIALLY
IT'S AN AWAY GAME, AND WE NEED
TO BE BACK IN THE HOME TEAM.
AND NOW BECAUSE OF THE CHANGES
IN THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT, IT
APPEARS THAT THE SUNNI TRIBAL
CHIEFS ARE, ONCE AGAIN, HAVING
BEEN ABUSED BY I.S.I.S., AND
THEY WERE BY AL QUAIDA AND IRAQ,
ARE WILLING TO FIGHT AND, THIS
TIME, LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE GOING
TO BE INVOLVED IN A MORE UNIFIED
IRAQI GOVERNMENT.
THE PESHMERGA OF THE KURDS HAS
FOUGHT.
WE NEED TO KEEP THEM EQUIPPED,
TRAINED, FULL OF INTELLIGENCE
AND GIVE THEM SUPPORT, I THINK
THEY CAN WIN, BUT IT'S NOT GOING
TO BE EASY OR QUICK.
>> Woodruff: I MUST ASK YOU
ABOUT RUSSIA, VLADIMIRTYOU KNOWS
GOVERNMENT.
THEY'VE ANNEXED CRIMEA, NOW
EFFECTIVELY CONTROL MUCH OF
EASTERN UKRAINE.
THERE HAVE BEEN MORE SANCTIONS
ANNOUNCED TODAY, THEY DON'T SEEM
TO PHASE HIM.
IS THE WEST HELPLESS TO STOP
HIM?
>> NO AND I DON'T THINK THEY
WILL PHASE HIM.
>> THE ALLOCATION OF MONEY AND
POWER IN RUSSIA IS NOT AS IT IS
HERE AND THERE'S NOTHING THAT
RESEMBLES THE FREE MARKET AND
THERE'S A LOT OF POLITICS IN IT
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE FELT.
BUT PUTIN CONTROLS THE MEDIA.
RUSSIA DOESN'T HAVE A FREE
MEDIA, SO BY THE TIME THEY GET
THROUGH WHIPPING EVERYBODY UP,
HE CAN MAINTAIN OCULARTY LONGER
THAN -- POPULARITY LONGER THAN
HE SHOULD.
POROSHENKO IS PROBABLY THE BEST
PRESIDENT UKRAINE CAN HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
HE'S A RESPONSIBLE, STRONG MAN.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THEY'VE GOT
EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPORT.
AND THEY'RE NOT N.A.T.O.
MEMBERS.
WE CAN'T COMMIT TO PUT TROOPS ON
THE GROUND.
WE DON'T WANT A MAJOR WAR, BUT
WE OUGHT TO BACK THEM AND
PROTECT AND SUPPORT THEM AS MUCH
AS WE CAN.
>> Woodruff: QUESTION ABOUT
AMERICAN POLITICS.
YOU HAVE BEEN ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY, YOU WILL CONTINUE TO GO
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY CAMPAIGNING
FOR DEMOCRATS, YOU AND SECRETARY
CLINTON WILL BE IN IOWA THIS
WEEKEND.
DESPITE THAT, ALL THE EXPERTS
ARE SAYING REPUBLICANS ARE GOING
TO TAKE CONTROL OF THE SENATE
THIS FALL INCLUDING IN YOUR HOME
STATE OF ARKANSAS.
WHAT'S YOUR ASSESSMENT?
>> CAN'T TELL YOU.
IN ARKANSAS, IT IS A QUESTION OF
WHETHER THE DEMOCRATS CAN GET
OVER THEIR PRIMARY DISABILITY AS
A POLITICAL PARTY WHICH IS WE
CAN PRODUCE IN A PRESIDENTIAL
RACE BUT NOT A MID-TERM RACE.
MARK PRYOR I BELIEVE CAN WIN A
SUBSTANTIALLY VICTORY IF WE HAD
A NORMAL TURN OUT OF
AFRICAN-MANNER, HISPANIC VOTERS.
WE HAVE TOO MANY LOWER INCOME
WHITE VOTERS.
WE HAVE TOO MANY VOTERS IN STATE
AFTER STATE OFFAFTER STATE WHERE
THAT'S THE CASE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN YET BUT I'M GOING TO HELP
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE NOT GOING
TO PREDICT THE DEMOCRATS?
>> I THINK WE HAVE A SLIGHTLY
BETTER THAN 50% CHANCE TO HOLD
THE CONGRESS.
I STILL THINK WE CAN WIN IN
GEORGIA AND KENTUCKY.
WE'RE NOW COMPETITIVE IN KANSAS,
AND WE HAVE TO, I THINK -- I
THINK WE HAVE A GREAT CHANCE TO
WIN IN NORTH CAROLINA.
I THINK WE'RE NOW GOING TO HOLD
MICHIGAN, AND I BELIEVE WE'LL
WIN IN IOWA, AND I THINKEN MARK
AND MARY LANDRIEU WILL WIN, SO
I'M NOT WITH THE SKEPTICS.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON, WE THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL MOTORS
MAJOR SERIES OF RECALLS HAS SO
FAR BEEN THE DEFINING CONSUMER
SAFETY STORY IN THE AUTO
INDUSTRY THIS YEAR.
BUT NOW, TO ADD TO THAT, THERE
ARE CONCERNS BEING RAISED AROUND
AIRBAGS ON THE PART OF HONDA AND
TEN OTHER CAR MANUFACTURERS,
THAT HAVE PROMPTED MORE RECALLS,
AND A FOCUS ON DISCLOSURE,
REGULATION AND SAFETY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: AS WITH G.M., THE
PROBLEMS MAY DATE BACK A DECADE
OR MORE.
IN THIS CASE, IT'S THE RUPTURING
OR EXPLOSION OF AIR BAGS THAT
INJURED DRIVERS AND ARE LINKED
WITH TWO DEATHS.
THE AIRBAGS ARE SUPPLIED BY
TAKATA CORPORATION.
WHICH MAKES THEM FOR AUTOMAKERS
AROUND THE WORLD.
HONDA FIRST BEGAN RECALLING A
FEW THOUSAND AS EARLY AS 2009.
THIS YEAR, RECALLS RELATED TO
THE AIRBAGS HAVE GROWN
DRAMATICALLY.
AND NOW EXCEED 14 MILLION
OVERALL, SIX MILLION OF THEM BY
HONDA.
WHILE TOYOTA, B.M.W. AND NISSAN
HAVE ALSO RECALLED LARGE NUMBERS
OF CARS.
DAVID SHEPARDSON OF THE DETROIT
NEWS JOINS ME NOW.
FIRST, REMIND US WHAT THE
PROBLEM IS WITH THE AIR BAGS.
>> SURE.
THESE ARE ABAGS DEPLOYING IN A
FRONTAL CRASH.
RATHER THAN JUST GETTING THE
PILLOW YOU SEE IN A STANDARD AIR
BAG, THEY ARE RUPTURING BECAUSE
OF THE HIGH FORCE AND IN SOME
CASES SENDING SHRAPNEL OR PIECES
OF METAL CAUSING INJURIES AND
REPORTS OF TWO DEATHS.
>> Brown: AS WE REPORTED HERE,
IT WAS FOUND FIRST A LONG TIME
AGO.
IT HAS TAKEN A LONG TIME TO GET
TO THIS NUMBER OF RECALLS.
KIND OF QUICKLY BRING US UP TO
DATE.
WHAT'S BEEN HAPPENING?
>> WELL, IT'S BEEN A REAL PUZZLE
BOTH FOR HONDA AND REGULATORS,
IN PART BECAUSE YOU HAD TWO
DIFFERENT PLANTS, ONE IN MEXICO
AND ONE IN WASHINGTON STATE THAT
HAD TWO DIFFERENT ISSUES WITH
THESE AIR BAG INFLATERS THAT
PROMPTED, YOU KNOW, STARTING
WITH HONDA TO RECALL THESE
VEHICLES AND GREW TO ALMOST A
DOZEN WORLDWIDE.
IN FACT, THE GOVERNMENT IS STILL
DECIDING WHETHER THE RECALLS
THAT HAVE BEEN DONE SO FAR ARE
ENOUGH AND STILL MAY BE MORE
VEHICLES TO BE RECALLED, AND
THAT GOES TO THE ISSUE OF IT'S
HARD TO FIGURE OUT EXACTLY HOW
MANY VEHICLES AND WHICH SPECIFIC
AIR BAGS SHOULD BE COVERED BY
THIS.
>> Brown: AND THAT'S LED TO
THE QUESTION WHETHER FORD AND
HONDA HAVE DONE ENOUGH OR HAVE
TRIED TO KEEP IT QUIET.
>> AS STANDARD PROCEDURE IN THE
AUTO INDUSTRIES, SOME AUTO
COMPANIES HAVE SETTLED SUITS BUT
THE SETTLEMENTS ARE
CONFIDENTIAL.
THE GOVERNMENT RECEIVES REPORTS
OF SETTLEMENTS THROUGH EARLY
WARNING DATABASE, BUT REMEMBER,
WHEN YOU HAVE 6 MILLION CRASHES
A YEAR, 30,000 PEOPLE WHO DIE
ND RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF
PEOPLE FOR THE GOVERNMENT
INVESTIGATING, IT'S OFTEN HARD
TO FIND A NEEDLE IN THE
HAYSTACK, AS THEY WOULD SAY.
>> Brown: THAT LEADS TO THE
OTHER SIDE OF THIS, QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE REGULATORS, HOW MUCH
ARE THEY LOOKING AND HOW MUCH
ARE THEY ABLE TO LOOK?
>> THE SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE
IS HAVING A HEARING TUESDAY TO
DECIDE, LOOK, THE NUMBER OF CAR
SALES HAS GROWN AND THE
COMPLEXITY OF CARS HAS GROWN
WITH THE COMPUTERS.
THE GROUPS INVESTIGATING IS
RELATIVELY STABLE.
THERE'S A QUESTION OF DOES THE
AGENCY NEED TO BE BEEFED UP AND
HAVE MORE TOOLS TO FORCE AUTO
COMPANIES TO RECALL VEHICLES
FASTER.
>> Brown: THE COMPANY
INV THE JAPANESE COMPANY
IS SUPPLYING A LOT OF
AUTOMAKERS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Brown: THAT'S
REPRESENTATIVE OF CHANGES IN THE
AUTO INDUSTRY, RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE HAD THE CRISIS IN 2009, WHICH
CAUSED AND SPURRED DOZENS OF
MAJOR SUPPLIERS TO FILE FOR
BANKRUPTCY.
AS A RESULT, SOME OF THE
SUPPLIERS WHO SURVIVED GOT
BIGGER AND BIGGER AND,
THEREFORE, YOU HAVE THIS ONE
INFLATER PART THAT IN THE PAST
MAY HAVE ONLY LED TO RECALLS BY
ONE OR TWO COMPANIES BUT, AS A
RESULT OF THE MARKET DOMINANCE
OF THE COMPANY, YOU HAD A DOZEN
COMPANIES IN THE U.S., IN
GERMANY, AROUND THE WORLD.
SO IT GOES TO THE FACT THAT
COMMONALITY OF PARTS IS LEADING
TO MUCH BIGGER RECALLS IN SOME
CASES.
>> Brown: AND WHAT IS HONDA
ITSELF SAYING AT THIS POINT
ABOUT WHERE THINGS HAND AND ITS
OWN CULPABILITY?
>> IT TOOK THEM A LONG TIME TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE PROBLEM IS
AND SAID THEY'RE COMMITTED TO
RECALLING VEHICLES IF THEY FIND
THEY'RE UNSAFE.
>> Brown: YOU SAY THERE'S A
HEARING COMING UP.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
WHAT DO WE LOOK GORE.
>> WELL, THE GOVERNMENT IN JUNE
PUSHED COMPANIES TO RECALL
VEHICLES.
IN FACT SOME OF THE AUTOMAKERS
DID IT EVEN THOUGH THEY SAID
THEY DIDN'T NEED TO.
SO LOOK FOR THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY
TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION TO
KEEP UP ITS INVESTIGATION
WHETHER HONDA ACTED PROPERLY AND
RECALLS NEED TO BE EXPANDED AND
LOOK FOR CONGRESS TO GRAPPLE
WITH THE ISSUE OF AUTO REFORMS.
>> Brown: DAVID SHEPARDSON,
"DETROIT NEWS."
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE RISING USE
OF OUTPATIENT MEDICAL CENTERS
FOR SURGERIES AND OTHER
PROCEDURES.
IT'S A CORNER OF THE AMERICAN
HEALTH CARE MARKET THAT RARELY
GETS PUBLIC ATTENTION.
BUT AFTER THE DEATH OF COMEDIAN
JOAN RIVERS, WHO SUFFERED FROM
COMPLICATIONS AT ONE FACILITY IN
MANHATTAN, THERE ARE LARGER
QUESTIONS BEING ASKED ABOUT
THOSE CENTERS, AS THEIR NUMBERS
ARE GROWING.
THERE ARE MORE THAN 5,000 OF
THEM PERFORMING A TOTAL OF 23
MILLION SURGERIES A YEAR.
HARI SREENIVASAN FILLS IN THE
PICTURE FROM OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS.
>> Sreenivasan: JOAN RIVERS
FIRST WENT TO THE YORKVILLE
ENDOSCOPY CENTER ON AUGUST 28TH.
BUT SHE SUFFERED COMPLICATIONS
AND WAS RUSHED BY AMBULANCE TO
MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL THAT DAY.
SHE NEVER REGAINED CONSCIOUSNESS
AND DIED SEPTEMBER FOURTH.
IT IS STILL NOT CLEAR WHAT WENT
WRONG OR WHAT PROCEDURE SHE WAS
UNDERGOING AND THERE ARE NO
ALLEGATIONS OF WRONGDOING.
BUT THE FACILITY IS THE SUBJECT
OF A STATE INVESTIGATION.
IT ANNOUNCED THE DEPARTURE TODAY
OF ITS MEDICAL DIRECTOR AND
THERE ARE QUESTIONS BEING ASKED
ABOUT SIMILAR FACILITIES.
SHANNON PETTYPIECE IS COVERING
NOW. FOR BLOOMBERG NEWS AND
WHAT EXACTLY IS THE TYPE OF
FACILITY MS. RIVERS WAS AT?
>> IT'S ACTUALLY VERY COMMON.
THERE'S MORE THAN 5,000 OF THESE
CALLED AMBULATORY SURGERY
CENTERS.
THEY'RE BASICALLY A
FREE-STANDING SURGERY FACILITY
FOR OUTPATIENTS ONLY AND THEY'RE
TYPICALLY OWNED BY THE DOCTORS
RATHER THAN A HOSPITAL.
SOME OF THEM ARE SMALL, LIKE THE
ONE MS. RIVERS WAS AT WITH JUST
A FEW DOCTORS THAT FOCUSES ON
ONE OR TWO TYPES OF PROCEDURES
LIKE ENDOSCOPY OR COLONOSCOPY,
BUT SOME ARE QUITE BIG AND DO A
RANGE OF OUTPATIENT PROCEDURES
AND ALMOST LOOK LIKE A HOSPITAL.
SO IT CAN BE TRICKY FOR A
PATIENT TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A HOSPITAL AND
OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTER.
ESSENTIALLY, THESE FACILITIES
D HY ROOM OR
AN I.C A I SAID, ARE
OWNED BY THE DOCTORS PERFORMING
THE PROCEDURES THERE RATHER THAN
A NONPROFIT OR A LARGE
CORPORATION.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY ARE THEY
INCREASING IN NUMBER?
WHAT'S CREATING THE MARKET FOR
THEM TO EXIST?
>> TWO THINGS -- ONE, MORE AND
MORE PROCEDURES ARE DONE
OUTPATIENT BECAUSE OF
IMPROVEMENTS IN TECHNOLOGY.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO SPEND THE
NIGHT IN THE HOSPITAL FOR ONE OR
TWO DAYS.
THE SECOND IS THEY'RE CHEAPER.
THEY COST ABOUT HALF AS MUCH AS
AS HAVING A PROCEDURE DONE IN
THE HOSPITAL BECAUSE THEY DON'T
CARRY THE HOSPITAL OVERHEAD LIKE
THE EMERGENCY ROOM OR CHARITY
CARE THAT A HOSPITAL PROVIDES.
SO THEY SAVE INSURANCE A LOT OF
MONEY AND WITH PEOPLE HAVING
THESE $5,000 DEDUCTIBLE AND
CO-PAYS NOW, THEY CAN SAVE
INDIVIDUALS A LOT IF IT'S $1,000
AT THE OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTER
VERSUS $2,000 AT A HOSPITAL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES PAY LESS, THE PATIENT
MAY PAY LESS OUT OF THE
DEDUCTIBLE.
IS THERE A CONFLICT OF INTEREST
IF THE DOCTOR TELLS YOU TO GO TO
A FACILITY THEY HAVE A STAKE IN
VERSUS A HOSPITAL WHERE THEY
MAKE MONEY DIFFERENTLY?
>> THE DOCTOR WILL MAKE MORE
MONEY IF HE SENDS YOU TO A
FACILITY HE OWNS RATHER THAN
GOING TO A HOSPITAL WHERE HE'S
BASICALLY JUST PAID FOR HIS
LABOR.
THERE HAVE BEEN CONCERNS AND
STUDIES THAT HAVE SHOWN DOCTORS
WHO HAVE AN OWNERSHIP STAKE IN
THESE FACILITIES REFER MORE
PATIENTS AND DO MORE OF A
CERTAIN TYPE OF PROCEDURE.
WHY THAT IS HARD TO TELL.
SOME PEOPLE SAID IT'S BECAUSE
THEY THINK THE DOCTORS HAVE A
FINANCIAL STAKE AND ALSO MAY BE
BECAUSE IT'S NOR CONVENIENT TO
DO THE PROCEDURES, CAN SCHEDULE
THEM MORE EASILY AND QUICKLY BUT
THAT'S ONE OF THE MAIN CONCERNS
RAISED ABOUT THE FACILITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE
HEALTH.comS?
IF YOU DON'T HAVE AN EMERGENCY
ROOM ON THE PREMISES AND IF
SOMETHING GOES WRONG LIKE IN
MRS. RIVERS' CASE, WHAT HAPPENS?
>> THERE'S NO DATA THAT SHOWS
THAT, FOR THE GENERAL
POPULATION, AN OUTPATIENT
SURGERY CENTER IS ANY MORE RISKY
THAN A HAVING IT DONE AT A
HOSPITAL.
BUT FOR THAT ONE IN A MILLION
CASE WHERE SOMETHING DOES GO
WRONG, THERE'S NOT AN EMERGENCY
ROOM, SO THERE HAS TO BE A
BACKUP PLAN, USUALLY THAT'S
CALLING 911, WHICH WAS THE CASE
WITH JOAN RIVERS, AND THEN YOU
HAVE TO BE RUSHED TO THE
HOSPITAL WHERE THERE ISN'T AN
EMERGENCY ROOM.
SO ONE OF THE BIG QUESTIONS IS
WHAT TYPE OF EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT
DO THEY HAVE ONA AND HOW FAR
ARE THEY FROM AN EMERGENCY ROOM
FACILITY IF IT IS ONE OF THOSE
RARE CASES WHERE SOMETHING
HAPPENS?
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT KIND
OF QUESTIONS SHOULD A CONSUMER
BE THINKING ABOUT WHEN THEY
MIGHT GO INTO ONE OF THESE
PROCEDURES?
>> FIRST THERE'S THE STUFF YOU
SHOULD ALWAYS ASK BEFORE YOU GO
INTO THE PROCEDURE.
THE SURGEON'S HISTORY, HOW MANY
PROCEDURES, THEY'VE DONE, WHAT
THEIR SAFETY RECORD IS LIKE, IS
THE FACILITY ACCREDITED AND
CERTIFIED.
THERE IS AN ACCREDITATION
PROCESS FOR THESE FACILITIES.
BUT THE OTHER THING TO ASK
SPECIFICALLY FOR AN OUTPATIENT
CENTER IS WHAT'S THE BACKUP PLAN
IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG.
HOW CLOSE AM I TO A HOSPITAL IF
I NEED TO GET TO THE EMERGENCY
ROOM.
AND YOU MIGHT WANT TO ASK IF THE
DOCTOR HAS AN OWNERSHIP STAKE IN
IT AND THEN QUESTION IS THIS
PROCEDURE REALLY NECESSARY OR IS
IT POSSIBLE THE DOCTOR IS
SUGGESTING THIS BECAUSE HE DOES
HAVE A FINANCIAL MOTIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: OBVIOUSLY THIS
PARTICULAR TRAGEDY PUT THIS INTO
LIGHT.
HAD THIS BEEN A DEBATE OR
STRUGGLE IN THE HEALTHCARE
COMMUNITY IN THE PAST FEW YEARS
NOW?
>> THERE HAS.
AS THESE OUTPATIENT FACILITIES
ARE MORE PREVALENT, THERE ARE AN
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF THEM
IN THE PAST DECADE.
THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF STUDIES
AND RESEARCH, PHYSICIANS GROUPS
AND ANTS THESOLOGY GROUPS,
EVERYBODY'S CONCERNED ABOUT
THEM.
SO THIS IS NOT SOMETHING NEW IN
THE MEDICAL DEBATE JUST BECAUSE
OF THIS EVENT THOUGH IT'S
GETTING A LOT OFFATTENTION.
>> Sreenivasan: SHANNON
PETTYPIECE, BLOOMBERG NEWS,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> MM-HMM.
>> Woodruff: ONE YEAR AGO THIS
MONTH, A CHINESE COMPANY BOUGHT
AMERICA'S LARGEST PORK PRODUCER,
SMITHFIELD FOODS.
THE $4.7 BILLION DEAL IS THE
BIGGEST CHINESE ACQUISITION OF A
U.S. COMPANY TO DATE.
NATHAN HALVERSON FROM THE CENTER
FOR INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING
LOOKED INTO  THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN THE
TAKEOVER.
THIS STORY WAS PRODUCED AS PART
OF THE FOOD FOR NINE BILLION
SERIES, A COLLABORATION BETWEEN
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING AND HOMELANDS
PRODUCTIONS WITH BROADCAST
PARTNERS, THE P.B.S. NEWSHOUR,
AMERICAN PUBLIC MEDIA'S
"MARKETPLACE" AND P.R.I.'S "THE
WORLD."
>> Reporter: PORK PRIDE IS
EVERYWHERE IN SMITHFIELD,
VIRGINIA.
THIS SMALL TOWN OF 8,000 DUBS
ITSELF "THE HAM CAPITAL OF THE
WORLD."
PAINTED PIGS LINE MAIN STREET.
AND, AT THE "TASTE OF SMITHFIELD
CAFE," BACON GRACES NEARLY EVERY
DISH.
THE TOWN'S MUSEUM EVEN FEATURES
THE WORLD'S OLDEST EDIBLE HAM.
AND SOME IN TOWN STILL PRODUCE
HAM AS IT WAS DONE GENERATIONS
AGO.
>> WE ARE CURING HAM THE SAME
WAY IT WAS DONE DURING COLONIAL
TIMES.
JAMESTOWN, WILLIAMSBURG, RIGHT
ON UP TO NOW.
>> Reporter: THE TOWN IS ALSO
HOME TO THE WORLD'S LARGEST PORK
PRODUCER, SMITHFIELD FOODS.
THIS FACTORY PROCESSES MORE THAN
10,000 PIGS A DAY.
>> WE'VE GOT BONELESS LOINS,
BONE-IN LOINS, BUTTS, BACK-RIBS,
SPARERIBS, NECK-BONE, CUSHIONS,
WF
EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: AND THIS IS GOING
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY?
>> ALL OVER THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: HERE, EVERY
EMPLOYEE FROM SECRETARIES TO THE
C.E.O. LEARNS HOW TO PROPERLY
BUTCHER A PIG.
A YEAR AGO NEWS BROKE THAT
STUNNED THE TOWN.
CHINESE BUYERS HAD PURCHASED
SMITHFIELD FOODS.
>> THAT WAS THE ISSUE WHEN IT
WAS ANNOUNCED.
IT SHOCKED THE TOWN.
NOBODY SAW IT COMING.
>> ANOTHER FOREIGN DEAL CAUSING
CHATTER IF NOT NATIONAL SECURITY
CONCERNS.
>> SMITHFIELD AGREEING TO BE
ACQUIRED BY CHINA'S SHUANGHUI
INTERNATIONAL.
>> A CHINESE COMPANY TODAY
OFFERING NEARLY $5 BILLION.
>> IT WOULD BE A LARGEST CHINESE
TAKEOVER OF ANY AMERICAN COMPANY
>> QUESTIONS ARE BEING RAISED
ABOUT WHY CHINA WANTS OUR PIGS.
>> Reporter: THE TAKEOVER RAISED
CONCERNS THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
WAS A HIDDEN PLAYER IN THE DEAL.
SOME MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WONDERED WHY SHUANGHUI GROUP
WOULD PAY MORE THAN SMITHFIELD'S
MARKET VALUE.
>> THE CHINESE, THEY PAID A 30%
PREMIUM.
VERY INTERESTING.
NOT EXACTLY THE BEST BUSINESS
DEAL, SO, WHAT'S REALLY GOING ON
HERE?
WHAT REALLY IS IT THAT THIS
MERGER, THIS PURCHASE, WAS ALL
ABOUT?
>> Reporter: SENATOR DEBBIE
STABENOW HEADS THE SENATE
AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE.
SHE SAYS FOOD IS A STRATEGIC
RESOURCE THAT SHOULD BE AS
IMPORTANT TO THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
AS OIL.
>> THIS ISN'T JUST AN
ACQUISITION OF A COMPANY.
IT'S 25% OF THE PORK INDUSTRY IN
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Reporter: STABENOW WORRIED
THAT THE SMITHFIELD TAKEOVER,
COULD SIGNAL A LONG-TERM THREAT
TO THE VITAL AMERICAN FOOD
INDUSTRY.
>> THIS IS A PRECEDENT SETTING
CASE.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE DEAL WAS
STILL UNDER REVIEW BY THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, STABENOW CALLED A
SENATE HEARING  TO TAKE A DEEPER
LOOK AT THE FIRST CHINESE
PURCHASE OF A MAJOR AMERICAN
FOOD COMPANY.
>> IT'S A MATTER OF CONTROL.
>> Reporter: DANIEL SLANE, A
CONGRESSIONAL ADVISOR WHO
RECEIVES CLASSIFIED CHINA
BRIEFINGS FROM THE CIA, WARNED
OF CHINESE GOVERNMENT
INVOLVEMENT.
>> THEY HAVE TOLD THEIR DOMESTIC
INDUSTRIES, LIKE SHUANGHUI, GO
OUT AND FIND THESE COMPANIES AND
ACQUIRE THEM.
AMERICAN COMPANIES ARE NOT
COMPETING WITH A CHINESE COMPANY
BUT WITH THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
AND THEY CANNOT WIN THAT
COMPETITION.
>> Reporter: LARRY POPE,
PRESIDENT AND CEO OF SMITHFIELD
FOODS, SAID THIS WAS SIMPLY THE
CASE OF ONE PRIVATE COMPANY
BUYING ANOTHER.
>> WOULD YOU AGREE THAT
SHUANGHUI IS A STATE CONTROLLED
COMPANY?
>> Reporter: NO I WOULD NOT
AGREE, SENATOR, THAT IT IS A
STATE CONTROLLED COMPANY.
I THINK THAT'S FAIRLY EASY TO
RESEARCH.
I'D JUST ASK MR. SLANE TO DO THE
MAYBE HE'S JUST GOT SOME BAD
RESEARCH.
INFORMATION.
MAYBE HE'S JUST GOT SOME BAD
SOME SENATORS EVEN LAUGHED OFF
INFORMATION.
SLANE'S REMARKS.
SOME SENATORS EVEN LAUGHED OFF
>> DID YOU REALIZE YOU WERE THE
SLANE'S REMARKS.
VICTIM OF A CHINESE COMMUNIST
>> DID YOU REALIZE YOU WERE THE
PLOT?
VICTIM OF A CHINESE COMMUNIST
>> SENATOR, I DID NOT, TO THIS
PLOT?
MOMENT I'M NOT SURE I UNDERSTAND
>> SENATOR, I DID NOT, TO THIS
I'M THE VICTIM OF A COMMUNIST
MOMENT I'M NOT SURE I UNDERSTAND
PLOT.
I'M THE VICTIM OF A COMMUNIST
( LAUGHS )
PLOT.
>> AND THE CONTROL OF YOUR
( LAUGHS )
COMPANY?
>> AND THE CONTROL OF YOUR
>> AH, SENATOR, I WAS NOT AWARE
COMPANY?
OF THAT.
>> AH, SENATOR, I WAS NOT AWARE
>> Reporter: IN HIS WRITTEN
OF THAT.
TESTIMONY, POPE SAID THE CHINESE
>> Reporter: IN HIS WRITTEN
GOVERNMENT HAS ABSOLUTELY NO
TESTIMONY, POPE SAID THE CHINESE
OWNERSHIP STAKE OR MANAGEMENT
GOVERNMENT HAS ABSOLUTELY NO
CONTROL IN SHUANGHUI.
OWNERSHIP STAKE OR MANAGEMENT
>> THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT HAS
CONTROL IN SHUANGHUI.
ABSOLUTELY NO OWNERSHIP STAKE OR
>> THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT HAS
MANAGEMENT CONTROL IN SHUANGHUI.
ABSOLUTELY NO OWNERSHIP STAKE OR
>> HE'S EITHER LYING OR
MANAGEMENT CONTROL IN SHUANGHUI.
DELUSIONAL, ONE OR THE OTHER, I
>> HE'S EITHER LYING OR
JUST DON'T THINK HE UNDERSTANDS
DELUSIONAL, ONE OR THE OTHER, I
THE SITUATION AND YOU CAN'T
JUST DON'T THINK HE UNDERSTANDS
EXPECT HIM TO BE A CHINA EXPERT.
THE SITUATION AND YOU CAN'T
HIS JOB IS TO DO WHAT'S IN THE
EXPECT HIM TO BE A CHINA EXPERT.
BEST INTEREST OF THE
HIS JOB IS TO DO WHAT'S IN THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
BEST INTEREST OF THE
>> Reporter: THE TREASURY
SHAREHOLDERS.
DEPARTMENT APPROVED THE DEAL
>> Reporter: THE TREASURY
LAST SEPTEMBER.
DEPARTMENT APPROVED THE DEAL
A SPECIAL COMMITTEE, WHICH MEETS
LAST SEPTEMBER.
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS TO EVALUATE
A SPECIAL COMMITTEE, WHICH MEETS
FOREIGN PURCHASES OF AMERICAN
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS TO EVALUATE
COMPANIES, REVIEWED THE
FOREIGN PURCHASES OF AMERICAN
ACQUISITION TO ASSESS WHETHER IT
COMPANIES, REVIEWED THE
POSED A THREAT TO NATIONAL
ACQUISITION TO ASSESS WHETHER IT
SECURITY, FOCUSING ON MILITARY
POSED A THREAT TO NATIONAL
DEFENSE.
SECURITY, FOCUSING ON MILITARY
SINCE TREASURY'S FINAL REPORT IS
DEFENSE.
CLASSIFIED, THE CENTER FOR
SINCE TREASURY'S FINAL REPORT IS
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING SPENT
CLASSIFIED, THE CENTER FOR
FOUR MONTHS DETERMINING IF THE
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING SPENT
CHINESE GOVERNMENT PLAYED A ROLE
FOUR MONTHS DETERMINING IF THE
IN THE TAKEOVER.
CHINESE GOVERNMENT PLAYED A ROLE
CARL SANCHEZ, THE LAWYER WHO
IN THE TAKEOVER.
BROKERED THE DEAL FOR SHUANGHUI
CARL SANCHEZ, THE LAWYER WHO
SAYS THE BANK OF CHINA APPROVED
BROKERED THE DEAL FOR SHUANGHUI
THE $4 BILLION LOAN TO BUY
SAYS THE BANK OF CHINA APPROVED
SMITHFIELD IN A SINGLE DAY.
THE $4 BILLION LOAN TO BUY
>> BANK OF CHINA IS OWNED BY THE
SMITHFIELD IN A SINGLE DAY.
GOVERNMENT.
>> BANK OF CHINA IS OWNED BY THE
SO IF THE GOVERNMENT HAS AN
GOVERNMENT.
INITIATIVE, AND THEY WANT TO GO
SO IF THE GOVERNMENT HAS AN
FORWARD WITH THAT, THEY CAN
INITIATIVE, AND THEY WANT TO GO
SUPPORT THAT.
FORWARD WITH THAT, THEY CAN
>> SURE.
SUPPORT THAT.
WE HAD OUR FINANCING ALL LINED
>> SURE.
UP.
WE HAD OUR FINANCING ALL LINED
WE WERE READY TO ROLL.
UP.
WE WERE READY TO SIGN THAT
WE WERE READY TO ROLL.
AGREEMENT.
WE WERE READY TO SIGN THAT
WE WERE READY TO PROVIDE
AGREEMENT.
COMMITMENT LETTERS FROM THE
WE WERE READY TO PROVIDE
BANKS FOR ABOUT $5 BILLION FOR
COMMITMENT LETTERS FROM THE
FINANCING ALTOGETHER.
BANKS FOR ABOUT $5 BILLION FOR
>> Reporter: IN IT'S ANNUAL
FINANCING ALTOGETHER.
REPORT, THE BANK OF CHINA
>> Reporter: IN IT'S ANNUAL
HIGHLIGHTS THE SMITHFIELD
REPORT, THE BANK OF CHINA
TAKEOVER CALLING IT THEIR
HIGHLIGHTS THE SMITHFIELD
"SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY" AND
TAKEOVER CALLING IT THEIR
SAYING IT "SPARES NO EFFORT TO
"SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY" AND
SUPPORT CHINESE ENTERPRISES IN
SAYING IT "SPARES NO EFFORT TO
THEIR INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT CHINESE ENTERPRISES IN
COMPETITION."
THEIR INTERNATIONAL
>> Reporter: WE ASKED SANCHEZ
COMPETITION."
DIRECTLY ABOUT THE CHINESE
>> Reporter: WE ASKED SANCHEZ
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN THE DEAL.
DIRECTLY ABOUT THE CHINESE
>> SO THAT PART OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE IN THE DEAL.
TRANSACTION I'M NOT SURE I CAN
>> SO THAT PART OF THE
COMMENT ON.
TRANSACTION I'M NOT SURE I CAN
>> Reporter: SO TO FIND OUT
COMMENT ON.
MORE, WE WENT TO CHINA, WHERE A
>> Reporter: SO TO FIND OUT
RAPIDLY GROWING MIDDLE CLASS IS
MORE, WE WENT TO CHINA, WHERE A
EATING MORE MEAT EVERY YEAR,
RAPIDLY GROWING MIDDLE CLASS IS
PUSHING THE COUNTRY'S PORK
EATING MORE MEAT EVERY YEAR,
PRODUCTION TO THE LIMIT.
PUSHING THE COUNTRY'S PORK
AT FACTORIES LIKE SHUANGHUI'S,
PRODUCTION TO THE LIMIT.
THE GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLISHED
AT FACTORIES LIKE SHUANGHUI'S,
MASSIVE PORK RESERVES, AKIN TO
THE GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLISHED
OIL RESERVES IN THE U.S., TO
MASSIVE PORK RESERVES, AKIN TO
STORE MILLIONS OF POUNDS OF
OIL RESERVES IN THE U.S., TO
FROZEN MEAT.
STORE MILLIONS OF POUNDS OF
>> Reporter: IN 2011, THE
FROZEN MEAT.
GOVERNMENT ISSUED A FIVE-YEAR
>> Reporter: IN 2011, THE
PLAN DIRECTING FOOD COMPANIES,
GOVERNMENT ISSUED A FIVE-YEAR
SUCH AS SHUANGHUI, TO OBTAIN
PLAN DIRECTING FOOD COMPANIES,
MORE MEAT FOR THEIR PRODUCTION
SUCH AS SHUANGHUI, TO OBTAIN
LINES BY PURCHASING OVERSEAS
MORE MEAT FOR THEIR PRODUCTION
BUSINESSES.
LINES BY PURCHASING OVERSEAS
WE WENT TO SHUANGHUI'S
BUSINESSES.
HEADQUARTERS IN LUOHE, CHINA.
WE WENT TO SHUANGHUI'S
>> WELCOME TO SHUANGHUI, THANK
HEADQUARTERS IN LUOHE, CHINA.
YOU, THANK YOU
>> WELCOME TO SHUANGHUI, THANK
>> Reporter: WE GOT A TOUR OF
YOU, THANK YOU
THE COMPANY FROM ZHANG TAIXI,
>> Reporter: WE GOT A TOUR OF
PRESIDENT OF SHUANGHUI.
THE COMPANY FROM ZHANG TAIXI,
ZHANG, LIKE THE OTHER SENIOR
PRESIDENT OF SHUANGHUI.
MANAGEMENT AT SHUANGHUI, WAS
ZHANG, LIKE THE OTHER SENIOR
APPOINTED TO HIS POSITION BY THE
MANAGEMENT AT SHUANGHUI, WAS
CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
APPOINTED TO HIS POSITION BY THE
HOW SUPPORTIVE WAS THE CHINESE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT OF SHUANGHUI'S
HOW SUPPORTIVE WAS THE CHINESE
PURCHASE OF SMITHFIELD FOODS?
GOVERNMENT OF SHUANGHUI'S
>> VERY SUPPORTIVE.
PURCHASE OF SMITHFIELD FOODS?
>> Reporter: HOW DID THE CHINESE
>> VERY SUPPORTIVE.
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT THIS DEAL?
>> Reporter: HOW DID THE CHINESE
>> THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT HAS
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT THIS DEAL?
BEEN SUPPORTING US WITH
>> THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT HAS
PREFERENTIAL POLICY AS WELL AS
BEEN SUPPORTING US WITH
INVESTMENT.
PREFERENTIAL POLICY AS WELL AS
FOR INSTANCE, THE BANK OF CHINA
INVESTMENT.
HAS SHOWN GREAT SUPPORT BOTH
FOR INSTANCE, THE BANK OF CHINA
FINANCIALLY AND POLITICALLY.
HAS SHOWN GREAT SUPPORT BOTH
>> Reporter: AND WHY HAS THE
FINANCIALLY AND POLITICALLY.
GOVERNMENT GIVEN SO MUCH
>> Reporter: AND WHY HAS THE
SUPPORT?
GOVERNMENT GIVEN SO MUCH
BECAUSE SHUANGHUI, ACCORDING TO
SUPPORT?
ITS OWN DOCUMENTS, IS REQUIRED
BECAUSE SHUANGHUI, ACCORDING TO
TO CARRY OUT CHINA'S FIVE-YEAR
ITS OWN DOCUMENTS, IS REQUIRED
PLAN.
TO CARRY OUT CHINA'S FIVE-YEAR
IN EFFECT, THE CHINESE
PLAN.
GOVERNMENT DOES EXERCISE
IN EFFECT, THE CHINESE
MANAGEMENT CONTROL.
GOVERNMENT DOES EXERCISE
WE WENT BACK TO SMITHFIELD CEO
MANAGEMENT CONTROL.
LARRY POPE, WHO IS NOW AN
WE WENT BACK TO SMITHFIELD CEO
EXECUTIVE WITH THE CHINESE
LARRY POPE, WHO IS NOW AN
COMPANY, TO ASK WHETHER HE
EXECUTIVE WITH THE CHINESE
STANDS BY HIS TESTIMONY TO
COMPANY, TO ASK WHETHER HE
CONGRESS.
STANDS BY HIS TESTIMONY TO
>> I HAVE NEVER SEEN A
CONGRESS.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL RELATED TO
>> I HAVE NEVER SEEN A
THIS TRANSACTION FROM CHINA AT
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL RELATED TO
ALL.
THIS TRANSACTION FROM CHINA AT
>> Reporter: WE SHOWED LARRY
ALL.
POPE THE BANK OF CHINA ANNUAL
>> Reporter: WE SHOWED LARRY
REPORT THAT DETAILS THEIR ROLE
POPE THE BANK OF CHINA ANNUAL
IN THE SMITHFIELD ACQUISITION.
REPORT THAT DETAILS THEIR ROLE
THIS IS THE BANK OF CHINA
IN THE SMITHFIELD ACQUISITION.
DOCUMENT WHERE THEY LAY THIS
THIS IS THE BANK OF CHINA
OUT.
DOCUMENT WHERE THEY LAY THIS
>> I DIDN'T KNOW THEY DID IT IN
OUT.
24 HOURS
>> I DIDN'T KNOW THEY DID IT IN
>> Reporter: YOU CAN SEE HERE, I
24 HOURS
JUST MARK IT, THEY'RE SAYING
>> Reporter: YOU CAN SEE HERE, I
THAT THAT TRANSACTION IS PART OF
JUST MARK IT, THEY'RE SAYING
THE GOVERNMENT'S PLAN AND THEY
THAT THAT TRANSACTION IS PART OF
ARE SUPPORTING IT AND ITS THEIR
THE GOVERNMENT'S PLAN AND THEY
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
ARE SUPPORTING IT AND ITS THEIR
>> WOW, THE BANK PERFORMS ITS
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
THE BANK SPARES NO EFFORTS TO
SUPPORT CHINA'S ENTERPRISES.
WOW!
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU COMPETE
WITH THAT?
>> IT'S HARD.
I DON'T THINK I COULD GO OUT
TODAY AND GET THE US GOVERNMENT
TO SUPPORT J.P. MORGAN, OR BANK
OF AMERICA, OR GOLDMAN SACHS
MAKING A $4 BILLION LOAN AS A
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR
SMITHFIELD TO MOVE FORWARD ON A
FOREIGN COUNTRY'S TERRITORY.
NO, I DON'T THINK THAT'S DOABLE.
>> Reporter: SANCHEZ, THE LAWYER
FOR SHUANGHUI, SAYS THE BANK OF
CHINA IS SET TO FUND MANY MORE
CHINESE TAKEOVERS.
>> I CAN TELL YOU FIRST HAND
THAT THIS HAS PAVED THE WAY FOR
OTHER DEALS.
WE ARE NOW LOOKING AT A FEW
OTHER VERY LARGE TRANSACTIONS
FOR CHINESE CLIENTS LOOKING AT
OTHER ICONIC BRANDS IN THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Reporter: SENATOR STABENOW
SAID THAT IF THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HAS A GLOBAL FOOD
AGENDA THAT INCLUDES PURCHASING
AMERICAN FOOD COMPANIES, THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT SHOULD PROVIDE
STRATEGIC PROTECTION FOR ITS
FOOD INDUSTRY.
>> FOOD SECURITY IS NATIONAL
SECURITY.
I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL FEEL
COMFORTABLE IF THEY WAKE UP
SOMEDAY AND FIND THAT HALF OF
OUR FOOD PROCESSORS ARE OWNED BY
CHINA.
THINK THERE ARE SOME VERY, VERY
TOUGH QUESTIONS THAT NEED TO BE
ANSWERED.
>> Reporter: STABENOW IS NOW
DRAFTING LEGISLATION THAT WOULD
REQUIRE THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT
TO TAKE A MUCH HARDER LOOK AT
FOREIGN TAKEOVERS OF AMERICAN
FOOD COMPANIES.
>> Woodruff: ONE FOOTNOTE: THE
CHINESE COMPANY, "SHUANGHUI," IN
THE STORY HAS OFFICIALLY CHANGED
ITS OVERALL NAME TO "W.H.
GROUP,"  BUT IT STILL RETAINS
THE NAME AND USE OF SMITHFIELD
FOODS FOR THAT BRAND OF PRODUCTS
SINCE THE DEAL WAS COMPLETED.
TOMORROW ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND, WE LOOK AT WHAT THE
SMITHFIELD DEAL REVEALS ABOUT
CHINA'S PLAN TO MODERNIZE ITS
FOOD SYSTEM, AND FEED ITS
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: A MAJOR
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS TO THE
NATION AND CALLS FOR
CONGRESSIONAL BACKING TO TAKE ON
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
IT WAS ANOTHER FULL WEEK OF
NEWS, AS WE TURN TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
SO, WE LOVE THE PROGRAM TONIGHT
WITH BILL CLINTON.
HE IS SUPPORTING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S PLAN TO DEGRADE AND
DESTROY I.S.I.S. AND THINKS IT
WON'T BE QUICK BUT HE THINKS IT
WILL BE SUCCESSFUL.
MY QUESTION IS, TWO DAYS AFTER
THE PRESIDENT ROLLED IT OUT, YOU
SAID IT FEEDS A HEALTHY DEBATE.
IS IT GETTING THAT KIND OF
DEBATE NOW?
>> NO, IT ISN'T.
IF JOHN KENNEDY WERE WRITING A
POST SCRIPT OF PROFILES AND
COURAGE, HE WOULDN'T GET ANY
MATERIAL ON CAPITOL HILL, WITH
FEW INCONSPICUOUS EXCEPTIONS,
TIM KAINE, DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
FROM VIRGINIA AND SEVERAL OTHERS
ARGUING CONGRESS SHOULD ACCEPT
THE RESPONSIBILITY.
THE IRONY IS REPUBLICAN HOUSE
MEMBERS ARE SPENDING HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO SUE THE
PRESIDENT FOR EXCESSIVE ABUSE OF
POWER, AND HERE'S THE ONE POWER
THAT IS DELINEATED BY THE
CONSTITUTION THAT RESIDES WITH
THE CONGRESS TO DECLARE WAR, AND
THEY'VE ABDICATED THAT
RESPONSIBILITY OR APPEAR TO BE.
I WANT TO GET TO THE ELECTION.
LEADERS NOW SEE THEIR
RESPONSIBILITY AS TO AVOID
DIFFICULT VOTES FOR THEIR
MEMBERS, WHETHER IT'S
LEADERSHIP, MITCH MCCONNELL
BEING THE EXCEPTION.
HE'S CALLING THE REPUBLICANS IN
THE SENATE FOR A VOTE.
HARRY REID DOESN'T WANT ONE AND
I DON'T THINK JOHN BOEHNER DOES
EITHER.
>> WE'LL HAVE A DEBATE ABOUT THE
BACKDOOR FUNDING MECHANISMS.
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS IT SEEMS
TO ME THE DEMOCRATS ARE MORE
DIVIDED.
IT'S MORE TROUBLESOME FOR THE
DEMOCRATS THAN THE REPUBLICANS.
REPUBLICANS ARE MORE UNITED.
RAND PAUL HAS COME OUT MORE OR
LESS IN FAVOR OF THIS SO WHAT
HAD BEEN MORE OF ISOLATION
STRATEGY, THAT PART OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY MERGED AND
LOOKS MORE LIKE A CONVENTIONAL
REPUBLICAN PARTY, THE NATIONAL
SECURITY PARTY.
THE DEMOCRATS ARE THE DIVIDED
ONES AND ANYWHERE THE DEMOCRATS
LEADING WANTS TO PUSH IT BEYOND
THE ELECTION.
BUT WE ARE HAVING A NATIONAL
DEBATE ABOUT IT ON THE STREETS.
WHAT STRUCK ME IS HOW HARD IT IS
TO TALK ABOUT IT.
MOST PEOPLE THINK YOU HAVE NO
CHOICE BUT TO SOMEHOW YOU CAN'T
ALLOW A GENOCIDAL CALIPHATE IN
THE MIDDLE EAST, BUT HOW YOU DO
IT HAS EVERYONE SCRATCHING THEIR
HEADS.
WHAT KIND OF COALITION DO WE
NEED?
WHAT HAPPENS IF THE IRAQI ARMY
IS NOT SUCCESSFUL OR THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY IS NOT SUCCESSFUL.
SO THE TENOR OF THE DEBATE
SHIFTED FROM ENDS FOR THE MOST
PART TO THE MEANS BECAUSE PEOPLE
ARE UP IN THE AIR AND NOT CLEAR
HOW THAT WORKS.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
ASKED CONGRESS TO SUPPORT THE
TRAINING OF SYRIAN REBELS, AS
SOON AS THEY IDENTIFY THE
MODERATE REBELS.
>> THEY'VE GOT TO BE --
IS THERE A TEST HERE?
I MEAN -- NO, JUDY, THE WESTERN
UNITED STATES, THE WESTERN
MILITARY HAS SHOWN IT'S ABILITY
AND CAPACITY TO COME IN AND
DOMINATE THE BATTLEFIELD, BUT
THE IDEA OF ESTABLISHING ORDER,
SECURITY AND PEACEFUL GOVERNMENT
IN ITS WAKE AFTER THAT HAS
ELUDED US.
AND THERE'S NO WAY IN THE WORLD,
THE QUESTION OF COALITION, WHO
ARE THESE PEOPLE?
WHERE ARE THEY?
WHO ARE THE TROOPS WHO ARE GOING
TO BE THERE TO GUARANTEE
STABILITY, ORDER AND SOME SENSE
OF JUSTICE IN THE AREAS?
YOU CAN'T DO THAT WITH
AIRSTRIKES.
I MEAN, AIRSTRIKES ARE
WONDERFUL, THEY'RE ANTISEPTIC,
THEY'RE AT A DISTANCE, THE
POSSIBILITY OF YOUR OWN
CASUALTIES IS FINITE.
BUT THEY DON'T OCCUPY.
YOU CAN'T OCCUPY A NATION AND
BRING ORDER AND STABILITY BY AIR
STRIKES.
SO WHO IS THE COALITION?
WHERE ARE THE TROOPS COMING
FROM?
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THESE ARE RELUCTANT WARRIORS AND
CAN CAN A RELUCTANT WARRIOR LEAD
IN A SITUATION WHERE WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT THE END GAME.
>> A SYRIAN MODERATE IS ANYONE
AGAINST BEHEADING, THAT MAKES
YOU A MODERATE IN SYRIA.
BUT HE DOESN'T WANT TO BE THERE
AND THAT HAS ADVANTAGES THAT HE
WON'T BE CARRIED AWAY BY HIS OWN
RIGHTEOUSNESS AND WON'T WANT TO
DOMINATE THE GROUND, IT WILL
MAKE HIM SKEPTICAL OF THINGS THE
GENERALS BRING HIM BECAUSE HE'S
NOT GUNG-HO AND IT MEANS HE WILL
BE REALISTIC ABOUT OUR GOALS.
TURNING SYRIA INTO A GREAT
COUNTRY IS NOT ONE OF OUR GOALS
AND TURNING IRAQ INTO A VIABLE
COUNTRY IS ONE OF OUR GOALS.
HE'S MORE INTERESTED IN KEEPING
IRAQ A HEALTHY COUNTRY MORE THAN
SIR.  I CAN'T OUR GOAL IS NOT
POSITIVE.
IT'S NOT MAKE THE MIDDLE EAST A
BETTER PLACE.
OUR GOAL IS MAKE SURE THE MIDDLE
EAST DOESN'T GET ANY WORSE.
SO I THINK WITH THAT LIMITED
GOAL, WITH SOME BUY-IN FROM THE
SUNNI TRIBES WHO HAVE DONE IT
BEFORE, THEY HAVE DEFEATED THIS
KIND OF ARMY BEFORE, IT SHOULD
BE POSSIBLE TO DEGRADE THIS
GROUP.
>> Woodruff: SOMETHING VERY
DIFFERENT, POLITICS, WE'VE
TALKED TO BILL CLINTON ABOUT IT.
HE'S GONE TO IOWA, MARK, WITH
FORMER SECRETARY HILLARY
CLINTON, WHO A LOT OF PEOPLE
THINK WILL RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN
2016.
SHE HAS NOT BEEN BACK THERE
SINCE SHE RAN FOR PRESIDENT IN
2008.
IS THIS SOMETHING YOU'RE GOING
TO BE WATCHING?
IS IT A BIG DEAL?
>> IT'S A MAJOR DEAL, FIRST TIME
BACK UP YOU SEE IN IOWA.
TWO THINGS, FOG THE EARLIERDISCS
ARE THE MOST (INDISCERNIBLE)
DEMOCRATS IN THE COUNTRY.
THE IOWA CAUCUSES WERE CREATED
IN 1968.
THE ANTI-WAR DEMOCRATS COULD
EXPECT THEIR OPPOSITION TO
LYNDON JOHNSON'S VIETNAM POLICY.
SO HILLARY CLINTON WHO IS
PRIDING HERSELF ON BARACK OBAMA
COMING OVER TO HER POSITION AND
ARMING THE SYRIANS AND HER
TOUGHNESS WILL BE INTERESTING.
WHAT IS INTERESTING TO ME IS HOW
SHE HANDLES BILL CLINTON.
BILL CLINTON -- THINK ABOUT
THIS, WE'VE HAD ONE BALANCED
BUDGET IN 45 YEARS, DURING BILL
CLINTON'S PRESIDENCY.
WE HAD THE LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT
IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES AMONG AFRICAN-AMERICANS
AND LATINOS.
WE HAD THE LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE IN 30 YEARS UNDER BILL
CLINTON.
THERE WERE 22 MILLION JOBS
CREATED IN BILL CLINTON'S EIGHT
YEARS, WHICH IS MORE THAN IN THE
20 YEARS OF RONALD REAGAN'S
EIGHT AND THE BUSHES' 12.
AN AMAZING RECORD.
SO SHE'S RUNNING A NOSTALGIA
BACK TO THE FUTURE CAMPAIGN.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK IT'S
A GOOD IDEA?
>> PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS ARE
ABOUT THE FUTURE AND I DON'T
THINK YOU CAN RUN A NOSTALGIC
CAMPAIGN.
SHE WANTS TO REMIND PEOPLE HOW
GOOD THINGS WERE WHEN BILL
CLINTON WAS THERE, YET IT'S
GOING TO BE 16 YEARS LATER.
>> SINCE SHE LEFT THE SECRETARY
OF STATE JOB, SHE'S EMERGED AS
CERTAINLY ONE OF THE MOST
HAWKISH DEMOCRAT AND PROBABLY
THE MOST HAWKISH PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE.
HOW FORWARD LEANING IS SHE IN
TALKING ABOUT IT?
IF YOU REMEMBER THE TEARS, HER
VOICE QUAVERED, SHE WAS IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE AT THE TIME, BUT
IT WAS A SCENE OF MAXIMUM
VULNERABILITY FOR HER AND ONE
EXPECTS THE CLINTON MIND, IT
WILL SEEM A MAXIMUM EFFORT THIS
TIME.
>> Woodruff: TO BROADEN IT
OUT, I ASKED PRESIDENT CLINTON
ABOUT THE SENATE RACES.
HE SAID AT FIRST HE DIDN'T KNOW,
THEN HE SAID, NO, I THINK THE
DEMOCRATS ARE SLIGHTLY BETTER
THAN 50/50 CHANCE.
>> YOU AND I SPECIFICALLY
ANALYZED THE MIKE ROSS --
>> Woodruff: ONE RIGHT AFTER
JUDY, THER.
DEMOCRATS ARE NOT AN ENCOURAGING
ENVIRONMENT RIGHT NOW.
THE SEVEN KEY RACES, SIX THE
DEMOCRATS CONTROL THE SENATE ARE
BEING RUN IN RED STATES THAT
MITT ROMNEY CARRIED BY MORE THAN
14 POINTS.
YOU'VE GOT A PRESIDENT WHO'S AT
THE LOWEST JOB RATING IN HIS
PRESIDENCY RIGHT NOW AT 40%, AND
YOU HAVE PEOPLE FEELING THE
COUNTRY IS HEADED THE WRONGDIREE
WORST IT WAS IN 1994 WHEN THE
DEMOCRATS WAS SWEPT AND IN 2006
WHEN GEORGE BUSH WAS ROUTED.
SO THE INTEREST AND ENTHUSIASM
FACTOR IS HIGHER AMONG
REPUBLICANS THAN IT IS AMONG
DEMOCRATS.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT AN
ENCOURAGING PICTURE.
SO THE DEMOCRATS, THE MARK
PRYORS, THE MARK UDALLS, ALL
TRYING TO MAKE A ONE-ON-ONE
RACE.
>> Woodruff: MARK, A GOOD
NAME.
>> THEY DON'T WANT TO MENTION
BARACK OBAMA, AND THE
REPUBLICANS ALL WANT THE SAY, MY
OPPOSITION, MY OPPONENT WENT TO
WASHINGTON AND VOTED 95% OF THE
TIME WITH BARACK OBAMA AND
FORGOT THE PEOPLE.
>> IT'S FUNNY HOW THE BAROMETRIC
PRESSURE AMONG THOSE WHO WATCH
THE POLLS, A COUPLE OF MONTHS
AGO LOOKED LIKE A GREAT
REPUBLICAN YEAR, THEN THE TIDE
SHIFTED, GEORGIA AND
NORTH CAROLINA HANGING IN THERE.
I'D SAY IN THE LAST TWO WEEKS IF
YOU LOOK AT THE POLLS,
OFFICIALLY THEY'VE GONE TO A
TIGHTER SCREEN WHERE THEY ONLY
LOOK AT THE LIKELY VOTERS.
IT SHIFTED MORE TOWARD THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE.
THE DEMOCRATS STILL DOING WELL
IN GEORGIA AND OTHER PLACES, BUT
THE MOMENTUM FEELS, AT LEAST AT
THE MOMENT, BACK AGAIN A LITTLE
MORE ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT CLINTON
IS SAYING HE'S GOING TO BE OUT
THERE CAMPAIGNING IN THE FALL
AND GETTING MORE INVITATIONS
THAN PRESIDENT OBAMA IS.
>> HE IS THE MOST POPULAR
POLITICAL FIGURE IN THE COUNTRY.
IT'S REMARKABLE.
>> Woodruff: ONE LAST THING,
THE ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE WHITE
HOUSE, THEY CONFIRMED THE
PRESIDENT IS NOT GOING TO
ANNOUNCE ANY SORT OF EXECUTIVE
ACTION ON IMMIGRATION UNTIL
AFTER THIS ELECTION.
IS THIS GOOD FOR THE DEMOCRATS,
DAVID, OR NOT?
>> IN THE SHORT TERM, YEAH.
SO IT'S A SHORT-TERM/LONG-TERM
THING.
IN THE SHORT TERM, MEANS A LOT
OF DEMOCRATS RUNNING IN RED
STATES WILL HAVE AN EASIER TIME,
THEY WON'T HAVE TO CONFRONT THE
ISSUE.
OVER LONG TERM, THE DEMOCRATIC
STRATEGY TO SACRIFICE THE SHORT
TERM, IT WILL BENEFIT US SO MUCH
MORE IN THE LONG TERM.
THEY'VE TAKEN A HIT AMONG LATINO
GROPES, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S POLL
STANDING AMONG HISPANICS IS
DOWN.
THERE'S A LOT OF ANGER FROM THE
GROUPS TO WHOM WERE PROMISES ON
THEY MADE A LONG-TERM SACRIFICE
FOR A SHORT-TERM PLAY.
>> I THINK SOME DEMOCRATS VIEW
THIS LONG TERM, 1994, JUDY, WHEN
THE DEMOCRATS WERE ROUTED AND
THE REPUBLICANS WERE IN THE
CONGRESS, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
40 YEARS, WON THE HOUSE.
AFTER THAT THE POST SCRIPT, THE
NARRATIVE WAS THE DEMOCRATS LOST
BECAUSE OF THE VOTE FOR GUN
CONTROL, AND GUN CONTROL BECAME
TOXIC AT THAT POINT.
I THINK DEMOCRATS ARE CONCERNED
IN 2014 IF THEY DIDN'T LOSE AND
IMMIGRATION WAS FRONT AND CENTER
THAT IT WOULD KILL PROSPECTS FOR
IMMIGRATION IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL BE WATCHING
BECAUSE YOU'RE RIGHT THE PRO
IMMIGRANT GROUPS ARE REALLY
ANGRY NOW.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
WE'RE NOT ANGRY AT EITHER ONE OF
YOU, COME BACK!
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY PRESSED
TURKEY TO JOIN THE COALITION
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS,
BUT HE SAID IT'S TOO SOON TO SAY
WHICH COUNTRIES WILL CONTRIBUTE
WHAT.
AND THE NUMBER OF CONFIRMED
EBOLA DEATHS IN WEST AFRICA ROSE
PAST 2,400.
AND ON THE HEELS OF THE RAY RICE
CASE, MINNESOTA VIKINGS STAR
RUNNING BACK ADRIAN PETERSON WAS
INDICTED FOR CHILD ABUSE IN
TEXAS.
HE ALLEGEDLY USED A TREE BRANCH
TO SWITCH HIS SON.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, OUR NATIONAL ANTHEM IS
CELEBRATING ITS BICENTENNIAL
THIS WEEK, SO WE'RE OBSERVING
THE OCCASION BY BRINGING YOU
SEVEN FACTS YOU MAY NOT HAVE
KNOWN ABOUT THE "STAR SPANGLED
BANNER."
SEE WHAT THEY ARE, PLUS LISTEN
TO TWO VERY FAMOUS RENDITIONS OF
THE SONG, ON OUR ART BEAT PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT UPCOMING
PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS  PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE GO BEHIND THE
SCENES AND READ BETWEEN THE
LINES, DELVING INTO THE WORLD OF
HARD CHOICES, HARDER POLITICS
AND UNCERTAIN OUTCOMES.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, ON CAPITOL
HILL AND ALONG THE FAULT LINES
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
THAT'S TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY.
WE TALK WITH VOTERS IN SCOTLAND,
BEFORE A CRUCIAL VOTE FOR
INDEPENDENCE FROM THE UNITED
KINGDOM.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.